doc: enablement of software SRAM on ACRN (#5792)
projectacrn/acrn-hypervisor: doc/tutorials/enable_software_sram.rst

.. image:: images/sw_sram_components.png
   :align: center
   :width: 800px

Components highlighted in blue are fundamental elements of software SRAM in platform firmware, hypervisor and kernel respectively. When configurations of software SRAM is generated in platform firmware(BIOS), operating system and hypervisor play a critical role in the enablement of software SRAM technology. This guide introduces the integrating of software SRAM capability for ACRN hypervisor.

For details about Intel® TCC Tools outside the scope of this guide, Refer to `Intel® TCC Tools page`_ and `Guide to Operating System and Hypervisor Components for Cache Allocation`_.

.. _Intel® TCC Tools page:
   https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/secure/develop/time-coordinated-computing-tools.html

.. _Guide to Operating System and Hypervisor Components for Cache Allocation:
   https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/secure/develop/time-coordinated-computing-tools/documentation.html

ACRN Software SRAM Architecture
*******************************

Below diagram illustrates architecure of software SRAM on ACRN:

> .. image:: images/acrn_sw_sram_design.png

Reviewer: Also, this image has red, squiggly spell-check lines in it.

Can we have access to the source file used to create the image to facilitate editing the text?

> .. image:: images/acrn_sw_sram_design.png

Author: @gvancuts 
1. " Boulder Spring" is the library name that intel deliver to as the user-space software SRAM components.
2. Sorry, not get your point about "squiggly spell-check lines" , will forward this source file to you offline, could you please give me some more hints?

   :align: center
   :width: 800px

Terminology
===========

`Intel® TCC` Intel® Time Coordinated Computing is a set of features with the ability to address the temporal requirements of real-time applications in a wide range of latencies, from milliseconds to microseconds.

> `software SRAM` Software SRAM.

Author: @gvancuts 
1) "pseudo SRAM" "PSRAM" ..are all legacy name in this domain, will cleanup them later, but not use them in new doc or source code any more.  we have removed this obsolete term in source code, but there are some used in config file.
2) So far,  TCC kernel driver is integrated to Yocto kernel, not see it in community Linux Kernel.  i have no idea about the plan for now.

> `software SRAM` Software SRAM.

Author: @gvancuts 
1. will remove odd name such as "psram", but this action spans modules (DM /Config/Hypervisor), so will do it after 2.4 release.
2.  " community Linux kernel " is not acrn-kernel, i mean the upstream linux kernel branch outside Intel.  refine this part.

Software SRAM Work Flow
=======================

1. TCC offline tool configures Software SRAM resources, indicated by the data in RTCD and RTCT.

2. ACRN hypervisor parses RTCT and initializes software SRAM by calling CRL ABI on each physical CPU.

3. CRL initializes software SRAM by setting up cache ways and mapping locked cache to memory space.

4. ACRN hypervisor:
	- Reserve the address range for software SRAM and remap software SRAM region to guest address space.
	- Build and inject virtual RTCT(vRTCT) to RTVM as an ACPI table.
	- Setup protection for software SRAM from being flushed runtimely, such as trap and emulate `wbinvd` instruction from guest.

5. Real-Time Configuration Driver (RTVM Kernel) initializes when valid RTCT is detected and creates device node `/dev/tcc_buffer`.

6. User space applications or libraries query configurations of software SRAM and request software SRAM buffers by issuing command to `/dev/tcc_buffer`.

7. User space applications or libraries map software SRAM bufer to user space by issuing command to `/dev/tcc_buffer`.

8. User space applications can access the low-latency software SRAM buffers.

Design assumptions
==================

> 1. One RTVM at most, either pre-launch RTVM or pre-launch RTVM, can be supported for specific ACRN configuration. Will update this design when ACRN supports multiple RTVMs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. One RTVM at most, either pre-launched RTVM or post-launched RTVM, can be supported for specific ACRN configuration. Will update this design when ACRN supports multiple RTVMs.
```

Author: will refresh all these term , thank you @gvancuts

> 2. Software SRAM and CAT features can't co-exist for current design, only one of them is allowed for one ACRN configuration.

Reviewer 2: Is this a HW limitation or an ACRN limitation?

Author: @gvancuts they're  ACRN limitation for now, we need more design to fix these gaps.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the clarification, can you make that clear(er) in the text?

> 3. So far, software SRAM can be supported on Intel® TGL and EHL platforms only.

Reviewer 2: How can a user determine a platform supports it? Is it a feature advertised on ark.intel.com, or is there a `CPUID` instruction to verify this?

Please use the official names as well here (and not just the acronym of the codename).

Author: For SW SRAM feature support, there no architectural interface (cpuid or MSR register) to detect,  i was told  from TCC team that it depends on CPU model only for now. 

will use "Tiger Lake" , "Elkhart Lake“ ，is it OK?

4. When software SRAM is enabled for pre-launch RTVM, ACRN pass-through all software SRAM resource to this RTVM， which means:
   - Platform RTCT instead of vRTCT will be injected to RTVM.
   - RTVM access software SRAM region by host physical address(HPA), or say, identical mapping is used for case.

> 5. When trying to enable software SRAM for pre-launch RTVM, L2 cache software SRAM is NOT supported， or say, ONLY L3 cache can be configured in platform RTCT.

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by "trying to...", it sounds like it may fail?

Where is the L3 cache only limitation coming from? HW or ACRN SW implementation?

Author: will add one more note on this, thanks.

6. Please follow the latest Intel® TCC Tools guide, such as `Get Started with Intel® TCC Tools 2021.1`_ to confgiure software SRAM for specific platform:

.. _Get Started with Intel® TCC Tools 2021.1:
   https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/secure/develop/documentation/get-started-with-intel-time-coordinated-computing-tools-2021-1/top.html

Enable Software SRAM for Pre-launch RTVM
****************************************

Please follow below steps to enable software SRAM support for pre-launch RTVM:

> 1. Follow Intel® TCC Tools guide to configure software SRAM on target platform, according to previous `Design assumptions`, only L3 cache can be configured. the native RTCT ACPI table can be found at `/sys/firmware/acpi/tables/PTCT` when it is configured successfully.

Reviewer 2: Can you access this from the Service VM? I suspect not, and if I'm correct, please make it clear that this is to be done from a native environment.

Author: @gvancuts 
1. Yes, service VM can access `/sys/firmware/acpi/tables/PTCT` , as it exported by UEFI firmware as an ACPI table and ACRN expose platform ACPI table to service VM.
2. But Service VM will be prevented from accessing software SRAM region (cache memory region) by ACRN.

2. Configure ACRN:

  - Stitch native RTCT ACPI table to `VM0_ACPI.bin` binary, which will be parsed to pre-launch RTVM as a multiboot module.

>   - Pre-launch RTVM shall be enabled for current ACRN configuration.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean here that your ACRN scenario should include one pre-launched RTVM?

Author: yes, will refine this desc, thank you @gvancuts

>   - Set `PSRAM_ENABLED` to `y` for pre-launch RTVM in ACRN configure file(`hybrid_rt.xml`), path to this file is platform specific.

Reviewer 2: We shouldn't edit XML files directly, let's redirect users to the ACRN configuration tool instead.

Author: make sense, will update this, thank you @gvancuts

Now, ACRN with this build can support software SRAM for pre-launch RTVM.

Enable Software SRAM for Post-launch RTVM
*****************************************

Please follow below steps to enable software SRAM support for post-launch RTVM：

1. Follow Intel® TCC Tools guide to configure software SRAM on target platform.

2. Configure ACRN:

>   - Post-launch RTVM shall be enabled for current ACRN configuration.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean here that the ACRN scenario should include a post-launched RTVM?

Author: yes.  will refine this note, thank you @gvancuts

>   - Set `PSRAM_ENABLED` to `y` for post-launch RTVM in ACRN configure file(`industry.xml`), path to this file is platform specific.

Reviewer 2: Redirect the user to the ACRN config tool to change scenario settings.

> 3. Launch ACRN-DM to start RTVM with one more option `--psram`.

Reviewer 2: Will we provide a script that the user can use as-is? Will the ACRN config tool generate such script for example?

Author: @gvancuts  , thanks to your comment, the patch for it is integrated, will update this doc part.
